h1. AnythingSlider jQuery Plugin

*Just what the world needs, another jQuery slider. YAWN.* I know, check this one out though, it’s got lots of cool features.

h2. Features

* Slides are HTML Content (can be anything)
* Next Slide / Previous Slide Arrows
* Navigation tabs are built and added dynamically (any number of slides)
* Optional custom function for formatting navigation text
* Auto-playing (optional feature, can start playing or stopped)
* Each slide has a hashtag (can link directly to specific slides)
* Infinite/Continuous sliding (always slides in the direction you are going, even at "last" slide)
* Multiple sliders allowable per-page (hashtags only work on first)
* Pauses autoPlay on hover (option)
* Link to specific slides from static text links

h2. Usage & Options (defaults)

<pre>$('.anythingSlider').anythingSlider({
   easing: "swing",                // Anything other than "linear" or "swing" requires the easing plugin
   autoPlay: true,                 // This turns off the entire FUNCTIONALITY, not just if it starts running or not
   startStopped: false,            // If autoPlay is on, this can force it to start stopped
   delay: 3000,                    // How long between slide transitions in AutoPlay mode
   animationTime: 600,             // How long the slide transition takes
   hashTags: true,                 // Should links change the hashtag in the URL?
   buildNavigation: true,          // If true, builds and list of anchor links to link to each slide
   pauseOnHover: true,             // If true, and autoPlay is enabled, the show will pause on hover
   startText: "Start",             // Start text
   stopText: "Stop",               // Stop text
   navigationFormatter: null       // Advanced Use: details below
});</pre>
	
To use the navigationFormatter function, you must have a function that accepts two parameters, and returns a string of HTML text.
	
* <code>index</code> = integer index (1 based);
* <code>panel</code> = jQuery wrapped LI item this tab references
* Function must return a string of HTML/Text

Here is a sample formatter:

<pre>navigationFormatter: function(index, panel){
	return index + " Panel"; 		// This would have each tab with the text 'X Panel' where X = index
}</pre>

h2. Changelog

h3. Version 1.3

* Accessibility improvements by Matt Lawson
* Some generic JavaScript/HTML/CSS code cleaning
* Move to GitHub entirely
* Ensures unique panel ID's
* Removes navigation if there is only one panel

h3. Version 1.2

* Bug Fix: When autoPlay was set to false, any interaction with the control would cause a javascript error.

h3. Version 1.1

* Changed default easing to "swing" so didn't depend on any other plugins
* Removed extra junk (other plugins used for design, etc)
* Added Pause on Hover option
* Added options for passing in HTML for the start and stop button
* Added option to use custom function for formatting the titles of the navigation
* Added public interface for linking directly to certain slides

h3. Version 1.0

* First version

h2. To Do

* Make ID's less generic e.g. "wrapper" should be more like "as_wrapper"